			  Referee Report on
 Residual -based Shadings for Visualizing (Conditional) Independence
			      JCGS 05117

The paper makes two points: emphases produced by cutoffs should be
related to variability under the hypothesized distribution, and HCL
colors are a better basis for color-coding departures.  The first
point is fairly intuitive but worth making since it is not followed in
common practice.  The second point is more subtle and may not yet be
made quite as forcefully as it could be.

On the first point, I am not sure that I am persuaded that the maximum
approach is the only approach that can be handled in the spirit of the
paper.  If you are willing to work with, say, a 0.05 cutoff c_0.05 for
X^2 based on either the asymptotic or randomization distribution, then
you could use a strategy in which for a table with X^2 > c_0.05 the
cells are colored according to their relative contribution to X^2.  It
may make sense to only use color for those cells where r_ij^2 >
c_0.05/df or something along those lines, and it may be useful to map,
say, intensity onto the p-value.  Some experimentation will be needed
to see what works best or at least reasonably well.  This sort of
approach should be possible whenever one of your \lambda functions is
\sum.

With respect to the superiority of HCL you in a number of places you
claim that HCL is clearly superior but you do not provide much
concrete support.  The only side by side comparison of HCL and HSV is
Figure 2 and I at least find this setting too abstract to be useful.
I would prefer a much reduced version of this figure (or eliminate
it?) and adding a number of pairs of concrete figures (e.g. mosaic
plots) comparing the two approaches you are contrasting.  That way
each claim you make would be illustrated by a concrete example.

One general perceptual question you might consider briefly is whether
strategies appropriate for single plots are equally appropriate for
ensembles of plots. Figure 4 is essentially a trellis display, and one
can also imagine using Mosaic plots in a trellis display.  It would
seem that the lack of color in the right plot in Figure 3 is less
important if this is a stand-alone plot than if it is part of a
collection like Figure 4.

Some details:

abstract, last line: replace 'problems' by 'models'

page 2, line 5: you are visualizing dependence, not independence

page 2, line 13: This sentence is unclear--what is being attributed to
Ihaka?

page 3, line 12" 'expected cell frequencies' is not the right term
here since they are data based. Some qualification is needed
(estimated, under conditional distribution, something like that).

page 4, line 1: 'sum of their squares' not 'squared sum'

page 4, line 3: what is an unconditional limiting distribution?

page 4, line 13: replace 'value exceeds' by 'values exceed'

page 4, line -4: say what you are conditioning on

pages 4-5: independence isn't really the right term for this example
except artificially if the treatment assignment is randomized: this is
really a comparison of distributions or test of homogeneity.

page 5, line 3: Standard errors for your p-values?

page 5, line 11: again 'expected table [\hat{n}_ij] is
contradictory--qualify the 'expected' in some way.

page 8, line 7: I don't understand what 'originally' means here

page 8, line 8: better: 'wheels around a white center'

page 9, it might help to point out that the
significant/non-significant rows will be explained later (and say
where).

page 10, line: better: 'goes back until at least Munsell'

page 10, line -9: better: 'saturations that the HSV colors have'

page 11, line 6: what does "most similar" mean?

page 11, line 15: this is one example of the cases where comparative
illustrations would help.

page 11, line -4: replace 'is not' by 'are not'

page 11, line -2: significant according to what measure?

page 12, line -6 to -4: It would seem to me that a continuous
scale within the ranges above 1.24 and below -1.24 would work well and
be a good fit to the HCL scheme.  If this is not true an example would
help.

page 13, line 4-4: the sentences 'This can easily ... This is
equivalent ...'  are superfluous.

page 14, top paragraph: again, well chosen illustrative plots should
help make this case.

page 14, lines 12-14: I do not understand the sentence 'Problems
... computed.'

page 14, line -6: It is not clear to me what you mean by
sum-of-squares shading.  I think I can guess but should not have to.
The problem is that I don't think you labeled what you mean explicitly
by this term when you described it.

page 17, Figure 4: one troubling aspect about this and the description
as the deviations in the female group being identified is that within
Department A there is only one degree of freedom associated with
deviation from independence.  This is less of an issue when there are
more categories but is an issue in the 2 x 2 case.

page 18, lines -11, -10, -9: the sentence 'Both ... dimensions' is
awkward.

